Specification of the operation IDFT (#4435)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/ops/signals/IDFT_7.md

> ## IDFT <a name="IDFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_IDFT_7}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Inverse Discrete Fourier Transformation (IDFT) <a name="IDFT"></a> {#openvino_docs_ops_signals_IDFT_7}
```

Author: Fixed.

**Versioned name**: *IDFT-7*

**Category**: Signal processing

> **Short description**: *IDFT* layer performs the inverse discrete Fourier transformation of input tensor by specified dimensions.

Reviewer 2: Change "layer" to "operation"

Author: Fixed.

> **Detailed description**: *IDFT* performs the inverse discrete Fourier transformation of input tensor with respect to specified axes.

Reviewer 3: Please give more full details and links on reference implementation.

Author: If you mean the nGraph reference implementation, then it will be in the separate PR.

    No attributes available.

**Inputs**

> *   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the IDFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, i.e. the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly.  Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **1**: `data` - Input tensor of type *T* with data for the IDFT transformation. Type of elements is any supported floating-point type. The last dimension of the input tensor must be equal to 2, that is the input tensor shape must have the form `[D_0, D_1, ..., D_{N-1}, 2]`, representing the real and imaginary components of complex numbers in `[:, ..., :, 0]` and in `[:, ..., :, 1]` correspondingly. Required.
```

Author: Fixed.

> *   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where IDFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`, `[-3, 0, -2]`. These indices should be integers from `-(r - 1)` to `(r - 2)` inclusively, where `r = rank(data)`. A negative axis `a` is interpreted as an axis `r - 1 + a`. Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where IDFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, for example, `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`, `[-3, 0, -2]`. These indices should be integers from `-(r - 1)` to `(r - 2)` inclusively, where `r = rank(data)`. A negative axis `a` is interpreted as an axis `r - 1 + a`. Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and is mapped directly to elements in the third input `signal_size`. Required.
```

Author: Fixed.

> *   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes and (-1) not in axes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **NOTE**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes and (-1) not in axes`.
```

Author: Fixed.

*   **2**: `axes` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* specifying dimension indices where IDFT is applied, and `axes` is any unordered list of indices of different dimensions of input tensor, e.g. `[0, 4]`, `[4, 0]`, `[4, 2, 1]`, `[1, 2, 3]`. These indices should be non-negative integers from `0` to `rank(data) - 2` inclusively.  Other dimensions do not change. The order of elements in `axes` attribute matters, and mapped directly to elements in the 3d input `signal_size`. Required.
*   **Note**: The following constraint must be satisfied: `rank(data) >= len(axes) + 1 and input_shape[-1] == 2 and (rank(data) - 1) not in axes`.

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_IND* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then IDFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]` at the end. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[a] for a in axes]`.

Author: Why not?

> *   **3**: `signal_size` - 1D tensor of type *T_SIZE* describing signal size with respect to axes from the input `axes`. If `signal_size[i] == -1`, then IDFT is calculated for full size of the axis `axes[i]`. If `signal_size[i] > input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, then input data are zero-padded with respect to the axis `axes[i]` at the end. Finally, `signal_size[i] < input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, then input data are trimmed with respect to the axis `axes[i]`. More precisely, if `signal_size[i] < input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, the slice `0: signal_size[i]` of the axis `axes[i]` is considered. Optional, with default value `[input_shape[: r - 1][a] for a in axes]`.

Author: Fixed.

> *   **Note**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **NOTE**: If the input `signal_size` is specified, then the size of `signal_size` must be the same as the size of `axes`.
```

Author: Fixed.

**Outputs**

> *   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output is calculated as the following. If the input `signal_size` is not specified, then the shape of output is the same as the shape of `data`. Otherwise, `output_shape[axis] = input_shape[axis]` for `axis not in axes`, and if `signal_size[i] == -1` then `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, else `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = signal_size[i]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output is calculated as follows. If the input `signal_size` is not specified, then the shape of output is the same as the shape of `data`. Otherwise, `output_shape[axis] = input_shape[axis]` for `axis not in axes`, and if `signal_size[i] == -1`, then `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = input_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]]`, else `output_shape[: r - 1][axes[i]] = signal_size[i]`.
```

Author: Fixed.

*   **1**: Resulting tensor with elements of the same type as input `data` tensor. The shape of the output is calculated as the following. If the input `signal_size` is not specified, then the shape of output is the same as the shape of `data`. Otherwise, `output_shape[axis] = input_shape[axis]` for `axis not in axes`, and if `signal_size[i] == -1` then `output_shape[axes[i]] = input_shape[axes[i]]`, else `output_shape[axes[i]] = signal_size[i]`.

**Types**

* *T*: floating point type.

> * *T_IND*: `int64` or `int32`.

Reviewer 2: Type of input with "axes" and "signal_size" can be of different data types. So we need "T_IND" and "T_SIZE"

Author: Fixed.

> **Detailed description**: *IDFT* performs the discrete Fourier transformation of input tensor with respect to specified axes. Calculations are performed according to the following rules.

Author: Done.

For simplicity, assume that an input tensor `A` has the shape `[B_0, ..., B_{k-1}, M_0, ..., M_{r-1}, 2]`, `axes=[k+1,...,k+r]`, and `signal_size=[S_0,...,S_{r-1}]`.

Let `D` be an input tensor `A`, taking into account the `signal_size`, and, hence, `D` has the shape `[B_0, ..., B_{k-1}, S_0, ..., S_{r-1}, 2]`.

Next, put
\f[X[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r}]=D[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r},0]+iD[j_0,\dots,j_{k-1},j_k,\dots,j_{k+r},1]\f]

> for all indices `j_0,...,j_{k+r}`, where `i` is an imaginary unit, i.e. `X` is a complex tensor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for all indices `j_0,...,j_{k+r}`, where `i` is an imaginary unit, that is `X` is a complex tensor.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Then the discrete Fourier transform is the tensor `Y` (the shapes of the tensors `X` and `Y` are the same) such that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the discrete Fourier transform is the tensor `Y` of the same shape as the tensors `X`, such that
```

Author: Fixed.
